# Eichmann in Jerusalem
A report on the banality of evil
Hannah Arendt, 1963

I don't intend to completely describe the who content, but the important points that author made. 

##### Chapter 2. The Accused
The author start this chapter by describing that *Eichmann feels guilty before the God, not before the law*. The attitude of the defense is to plead not guilty because under the then existing Nazi legal system, he had not done anything wrong.

For Eichmann, he denied any killing of the Jews *by his own hand* and never gave an order to kill either a Jew or a non Jew. He believe that he can only be accused of *aiding and abetting* the annihilation of the Jews. Furthermore, "Those who today told Eichmann that he could have acted differently simply did not know how things have been."

Eichmann did not deny that he carried out these actions on purpose, but he denied guilty in the sense of indictment. He denied that he is *in full knowledge of the criminal nature of his deeds* and that he would have a bad conscience only if he had not done what he had been ordered to do. 

The judges considered this statement a lie and did not believe him because they find it difficult to admit that an average, normal person could be perfectly incapable of telling right from wrong and *he must have been aware of the criminal nature*, since he is examined by psychiatrists to be *normal* without legal insanity and more over, he has no case of insane hatred of Jews and he personally *never had anything whatever against Jews*. 

The author here commented that *Eichmann was indeed normal insofar as he was no exception within the Nazi regime, however, under the conditions of the Third Reich only exceptions could be expected to react normally*, meaning that under the then condition, even a normal person could behave as exception

Author go on to review the early life of Eichmann and how he joined the Nazi party, which "happened so quickly and suddenly", and "a leaf in the whirlwind of time, he was blown": he entered the party without desire to be properly informed and he did not even know the party program. 
>Kaltenburnner had said to him: why not join the S.S.? and he replied, why not? That was how it had happened, and that was about all there was to it.

As Eichmann understood it, the Nazi movement keeps moving forward and in which somebody like him, could start from scratch and still make a career. He is a man looking for significance and status in the social order. The author described that he might have preferred to be hanged as Obersturmbannfuhrer (lieutenant colonel) rather than living out his life quietly and normally as a travelling salesman. 

##### Chapter 3. An Expert on the Jewish Question
In this chapter, author continue to describe the experience of Eichmann in the S.S. and the status of the Jews in Nazi Germany. 

The Nuremberg laws had deprived the Jews of their political but not of their civil rights. They are no longer citizens but they remained members of the German state. For Eichmann, after he entered the special service, he studied the organizational setup of the Zionist movement, including its party members and programs in Germany. It earned him an assignment as official spy on the Zionist offices. His main schooling in Jewish affairs was almost entirely concerned with Zionism.

In 1938, he was sent to Austria to organize the emigration of Jews. Eichmann claimed the year in Vienna as his happiest and most successful period, during which under Eichmann, Austria was cleansed of 60% of its Jewish population. They are forced to leave the country or "otherwise you will go to a concentration camp". The main contribution of Eichmann in this is creating a better logistics for the processing of documents for the immigrates.

Eichmann claims that he is an *idealist* who had their feelings and emotions but would never permit them to interfere with his actions if they came into conflict with his ideas. He live for his ideas and would sacrifice for his idea everything and everybody.

He brags about what he has done, which is *the vice that was Eichmann's undoing*. He for a long time claims "I will jump into my grave laughing, because the fact that I have the death of five million Jews on my conscience gives me extraordinary satisfaction" because it gave him an extraordinary sense of elation to think that he was exiting the stage in this way. 

Furthermore, the author wrote that "A more decisive faw in Eichmann's character was his total inability to look at anything from other fellow's point of view" and "the longer one listened to him, the more obvious it became that he has inability to speak and to think from standpoint of somebody else", which *stand as a reliable safeguards against reality as such*. In his own writting, he tells his experience in the tone of someone who was sure to find "normal, human" behavior in a "hard-luck" story: "I don't know, everything was as if under an evil spell, whatever I desired and wanted and planned to do, fate prevented it somehow, I was frustrated in everything, no matter what." It was as if he has no role in the suffering of others, which is the result of his doing. (The author gave an example of him meeting with a Jewish friend in the concentration camp, which he is a part of, and "he told me all his grief and sorrow" and he replied "we certainly got it! what rotten luch!")

The author wrote that the case of Eichmann is essentially different from the ordinary criminal who shield himself effectively against the reality only within the limit of his gang. For Eichmann, *he and the world he lived in had once been in perfect harmony* since the whole eighty million people in the German society had been shielded against reality and factuality by exactly the same means, the same self-deception, lies and stupidity that had now become ingrained in Eichmann's mentality. His astounding willingness to admit his crimes was due less to his own criminal capacity for self-deception than to the aura of systematic mendacity that had constituted the general atmosphere of the Third Reich. It is always his sense of elation that he considered important, not his conscience. 

The above habits of Eichmann (bragging, and ignorant of the reality) have created considerable difficulty during the trial for those who had come to prosecute him, to defend him and to judge him. The author claimed him to be not a *monster* but a *clown*, but the court cannot accept this because *this suspicion would have been fatal to the whole enterprise, and was also rather hard to ustain in view of the sufferings he and his like had caused to millions of people*.

##### Chapter 4. The First Solution: Expulsion
When Eichmann started to work on the solution of immigration of the Jews, it was in the interest of the Jews to get out of the country and Eichmann is the *one who had to help them, one had to help these functionaries to act, and that's what I did*. Author wrote "True, he could not foresee at the time the coming Final Solution, but he had saved them, that was a fact".

In the first stage of the Jewish policy, the National Socialists adopted a pro-Zionist attitude. The German Jews themselves thought it would be sufficient to undo "assimilation" throught a process of "dissimilation" and flock into the ranks of the Zionist movement. Even Hitler's rise to power appeared to the Zionists as "a decisive defeat of assimilationism" and they cooperated with the Nazi authorities. Their chief enemy, prior to the extermination program, was not those who made life impossible for Jews in the old countries like Germany or Austria, but those who barred access to the new homeland, Britain. 

As for Eichmann, he showed his mettle and in Vienna, he was recognized not merely as an expert on the Jewish question, the intricacies of Jewish organizations and Zionist parties, but as an authority on emigration and evacuation, as the master who knew how to make people move. However, As the war went on, the avenues for emigration overseas became clogged up and the possibility of escape within Europe had been exhausted. 

##### Chapter 5. The Second Solution: Concentration
In 1941, Eichmann is appointed in the office that handle Catholics, Protestants, Freemasions and Jews department in R.S.H.A. in S.S., under Muller, who obied Heydrich under the command of Himmler. Apart from S.S., there is also a network of higher S.S. and police leaders who were in command of the regional organization and do not connect to the department of Eichmann. They played an important role in the Final solution but often outrank Eichmann the men at his disposal. 

Eichmann's position is not very high, but an important one. Even in 1943 when the Jewish problem had grown to fantastic proportions, he was still the only office that officially dealt with nothing but the Jews. Although other forces, offices, state, party and army are all involved in solving the Jewish problem. 

When Eichmann entered his new position, he was confronted with the dilemann that on the one hand the "force emigration" was the official formula and on the other, "emigration was no longer possible". Nonetheless, he tried to purpose three ideas, which are unsuccessful, to emigrate the Jews. The inexhaustible source of trouble was that he and his men were never left alone, all those other parties wanted their share in the "solution"

The author here described Eichmann's main plan, the first of them is to move the Jew population to the east part of Poland, which is not considered a part of the Reich (General Govenment). The second plan is to move them to Madagascar, however, although Eichmann tried to work out detailed plan for the evacuation of Jews to Madagascar, The Madagascar plan was always meant to serve as a clock under which the preparation of the physical extermination of the Jews could be carried forward. So that when, a year later, the Madagascar plan was declared obsolete, everybody was logically prepared for the next step: since there is no tettitory to which one could "evacuate", the only solution is to exterminate.

At that time, various offices in the Reich is involved in the killing of the Jews, but there was not unified policy, each office had its own solution. Eichmann's solution was a police state and for that he needed a sizable territory, so his efforts failed as the war went on and at one moment he understood "that was the end of his dreams and the end of the era of searching for a solution in the interest of both sides". It become clear for Eichmann that "the evacuation and deportation" was no longer the last stages of the solution. His department merely become instrumental. He even need to apply to find out the ultimate desitination of each shipment of Jews. 

##### Chapter 6. The Final Solution: Killing
In the begining of this chapter, author described how Eichmann dealt with the order of killing. Eichmann recalled that he, never belong to the higher party circles, was told by Heydrickthat "the fuhrer has ordered the physical extermination of the Jews." and then he understood and "did't say anything because there was nothing to say any more, for I had never thought of such a thing, such a solution through violence" and he "lost all the joy in his work". 

The author described Eichmann's involvement in the killing and he Eichmann visited the killing center and felt disguest about the killing. The author then claim that two important questions of the trial of Eichmann was answered: 1) Is Eichmann aware of what he was doing, since he had been involved in the transport but not directly in the killing and 2) Is he in a position to judge the enormity of his deeds, and *Both questions now were answered in affirmative: he had seen the places to which the shipment were directed and he had been shocked out of his wits*.

The author then go on to describe whether Eichmann *had done his acts in order to save himself from the danger of immediate death*. It is concluded that the answer is NO, he was not in any danger of immediate death and since he claimed with great pride that he had always done his duty, he take great pride that he had "done his duty". Therefore, the case is settled.

Author described the general atomsphere in Germany at the time about the issue of *conscienceness* and concluded that there are instance in which Eichmann had tried to save Jews. There are also people who rebel under the Nazi regime, whose fundamental reason for rebel is not because of the inhuman crime of the regime and the fact that other people will be made to suffer, but the *fact that Hitler was preparing war* or *their conviction of the coming defeat and ruin of Germany*. 

There are also "voice of conscience" across Germany, but most of them are slient and their voices were never heard, who "preferred having his independent existence destroyed and becoming a simple worker in a factory to taking upon himself the little formality of entering the Nazi party." Inside the Nazi party, the problem of conscience is avoided by creating a different reality and change the instincts of people around. 

##### Chapter 7. The Wannsee conference
The author described the Wannsee conference, whose aim is to coordinate all efforts towards the implementation of the Final solution, and when "meeting had become necessary because the Final Solution, if it was to be applied to the whole of Europe, ..., needed the active cooperation of all ministries and of the whole civil service." Since the meeting is attended not only by party numbers, but also various ministries and non-party members, Heydrich questioned if he is able to get the active help from all those people, but "there was more than happy agreement on the part of the participants". 

Eichmann acted mainly as a secretary of the meeting, and although he had been doing his best right along to help the final solution, he had still some doubts about such a bloody solution through violence. But during the course of the meeting, the doubts dispelled because "The most prominent people had spoken" and "I felt free of all guilt, who was he to have his own thoughts in this matter?". For Eichmann, he could see no one who protested, no one refused to cooperate. 

Even the Jews cooperated with Nazi, which the author described as the *Darkest chapter of the whole dark story.* The Jewish officials coorperated *all the ways* to help in the execution of the Final solution and even the Jews did not rebel. All levels of organization coorperated in one way or another almost without exception, to such an extent that if the Jewish people are indeed unorganized, the total number of victims could be much less. 

In this general environment, there were no voices from the outside to arouse the conscience of people, including Eichmann. "His conscience was indeed set to rest when he saw the zeal the eagerness with which the good society everywhere reacted as he did". There were simply no protest possible and "the only possible way to live in the Third Reich and not act as a Nazi was to not appear at all and withdrawal from significant participation in public life"

##### Duty of a law abiding citizen
Here, author described the reason for Eichmann's resolution in carrying out the Final solution, even if his direct superior, Himmler has ordered Eichmann to reserve the killing of Jews, to establish their position as a moderate wing of the S.S. so as to reduce their crime. The question here was whether Eichmann carried out the Final solution because of his fanaticism, his hatred of Jews or whether he had lied to the police when he claimed he had always obeyed orders. 

According to Kant in his *Critique of Pure Reason*, there is more a man do than obeying the law, that he goes beyong the mere call of obediance and identify his own will with the principle behind the law, in Kant's formulation, this will is practical reasoning. Eichmann cited Kant for his doing. (My will must always be such that it can become the principle of general law.) However, he distorted it by making this source the will of the Fuhrer, which according to Eichmann he should "act in such a way that the Fuhrer, if he knew your action, would approve it". 

The author commented in the ending that 
>Just as the law in civilized countries assumes that the voice of conscience tells everybody "you should not kill", even the man's natural desires may at a time be murderous. So the law in Hitler's land demanded that the voice of conscience tell everybody "You should kill". Evil in the Third Reich had lost the quality by which most people recognize it the quality of temptation. Many Germans and many Nazis, must have been tempted not to murder, and not become accomplices in all these crimes by benefiting from them, but *they learned how to resist temptation*.

### Deportation
##### Deportations from the Reich
Eichmann had to coordinate all these effect in the deportation, which he described as "complete chaos". His position was that of the most important conveyor belt in the whole operation, because it was up to his office how many Jews could or should be transported from any given area. 

The deportation start first in the Geerman Reich, and the first deportation is the relocation of Jews within Stettin (Poland region) under the pretext that "their apartments were urgently required for reasons connected with the war economy". These first operations lack any legal prepartion and the main objective seems to be a test of general political conditions: How the Jews, their neighbors and other government would react. And things "turned out to be satisfactory". 

The later deportation of Jews are consisted of the following steps: 1) the introduction of the yellow badge (1941/09/01), 2) the change in the nationality law so that Jews would not be considered a German national if he live outside the boarders of the Reich and 3) Decree of all property of the German Jews who had lost their nationality (1941/11/25). On 1943.06.30, The Reich finally is declared "Judenrein".
##### Deportations from Western Europe
This section focus on the deportation activities in France, Belgium and Holland starting around June 1942, However, France refuse to take step to revoke the naturalization granted to Jews, not even the anti-Semites wished to become accomplices in mass murder when the truth of resettlement reached France. In Belgium, the Belgian police did not cooperate with the Germans. The Belgian railway men could not even be trusted to leave the trains by themselves because they try to leave to doors unlocked or to arrange ambushes so that the Jews could escape. As a result, very few Belgian Jews were deported and Eichmann had to use military administration for the deportation. 
Holland had been the only country in which wave of strikes and protest broke out in response to the first deportation of Jews. There are widespread hostility in Holland toward anti-Jewish measures. However, Holland has strong Nazi movement and a strong tendency among the native Jews to draw a line between themselves and the new arrivals, so that it ended up in Holland that large number of Jews are deported. 
On the contrary, Sweden immediately offered asylum, and sometimes even Swedish nationality to all who were persecuted. therefore, a part of Jews escaped to Sweden are able to find a place of refuge. 
Denmark is an outstanding example where its people and its government resisted Germany and is truely independent. Only the Danes dared to speak out on the subject to their German masters, and "The Danish government officials were careful to point out that anti-Jewish measures of any sort would cause their own immediate resignation". Even the German officials who had been living in Denmark is *no longer the same*. The local military commander refuse to put troops at the disposal of the Reich.  It shows that "The ideal of toughness, except perhaps, for a few half-demented brutes, were nothing but a myth of self-deception, concealing a ruthless desire for conformity at any price"
In italy, Eichmann's activity also meet resistance. There, the sabotage was *all the more infuriating* as it was carried out in the open. Promises were given by high-ranking officials but are always failed to be fulfilled. Only occasionally would the Nazis be met with a flat refusal. The final result is that the majority of italian Jews were exempted. The absence of the Jewish question, even though the Jews still created problems in Italy, was praised by the author to be "almost automatic general humanity of an old and civilized people" and the Germans, yield upon meeting resistance in italy and most of the Italian Jews are exempted. 
##### Deportations from the [Balkans](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Balkans)
In east europe, the Jews were recognized by friend and foe alike as a distinct people. Instead of a large body of middle class Jews as in Western and central europe, there are a thin layer of upper-middle-class families who actually belong to the ruling classes and their assimilation is far greater than anywhere else. In the case of Cortia, It is difficult, or even impossible to get rid of the Jews in these countries becasuse of many of the Jews had high social status. The assimilation in the East generally offered a great chance for Jews to survive. 
In Bulgaria, the government and its people resisted German's policy because there is very small Fascist movement and almost have no political influence. In later period when forced by German embasst, they still delayed action for any radical steps and under heavy German pressure, the Bulgarian government decided to expel all Jews, which goes against German's will to concentrate Jews. Even local German officials became unsure of themselves and are convinced that the situation are helpless. The result is that in Bulgaria, not a single Jew had been deported. 
In Greece, its population was indifferent to German's policy and even supported the action. As a result, almost no resistent occur in Greece and many Jews deported 
##### Deportations from Central Europe

### The Killing Centers in the East
The east is the center of Jews' suffering. The prosecution put a large emphasize of the suffering of the Jews and want to show "how much specific responsibility of this unmitigated hell could be blamed upon the accused". A large number of backgroup witness participate in the court and provided their account of their experience and suffering. Although most of them have very little to do with Eichmann himself. It become apparent that many of these accounts are exaggerated and Eichmann's role in the Final solution are smaller than previously believed. 

However, the Judges are reluctant to waive these hearings because of their Jewish identities but they try their best to use a "different approach" which focus on Eichmann's activity in Germany instead of on what the Jews had suffered because "sufferings on such a scale were beyong human understanding but the deeds and motives that had caused them were neither beyong understanding nor beyong judgment". However, the fact that Eichmann is kidnapped force the Judges to prosecute Eichmann in his role in Jews sufferings in addition to his main crime, which is to ship people to their death fully aware of what he was doing. 

During the prosecution, it turned out that Eichmann, even at a late stage, "had next to nothing to do" with what happened in the east: Eichmann is aware of the activity in the East but did not directly participate in it. The control of transportation in this area is also not his, but belong to some higher S.S and police leaders. Furthermore, Eichmann had no authority in concentration camps and he cannot decide who would die or who would live. 

Author commented that if the Judges are able to clear Eichmann's role in the East from the above evidence, the case of the prosecution would be completely destoried, although Eichmann himself cannot escape punishment and the Judgement would not be different. But the Judges concluded that "the evidence was sufficient"

### Judgment, Appeal and Execution
On August 14, 1961, after 114 sessions, the main proceedings came to an end and it is judged that 
>He had committed crimes "against the Jewish people", which is the crime commited against the Jews with intent to destroy the people, on four account: 1) cause the killing of millions of Jews, 2) placing milions of Jews under conditions which were likely to lead to their physical destructions; 3) by causing serious bodily and mental harm to them and 4) by directing that births be banned and pregnancies interrupted among Jewish women. 

Here, the author described her view that the nature of the crime is complicated, where so many people are involved and the fact that in the death camps it was usually the victims who had actually wield the fatal instrument with their own hands. But author believed that in such case, "there is not much point in using the ordinary concepts" and in such crimes, how far or close of the crimials from the actual killers mean nothing, and *The degree of responsibility increases as we draw further away from the man who used the fatal instrument with his own hands*. 

Eichman insisted that he was guilty only of "aiding and abetting" in the commission of the crimes with which he was charged, but he himself had never committed an overt act. Eichmann believed that his guilt come from his obedience, and he was only a victim and the actual leaders deserve punishment, although he confirmed that he must suffer for what he had done. He was sentenced to death

On may 29, 1962, the second Judge was read and on that day, the president of Israel, Ben-Zvi recevied Eichmann's plea for mercy. However all pleas, not only from Eichmann but also from letters from all over the world, are rejected on May 31 and ordered Eichmann to be hanged a few hours later. 

### Epilogue
Here the author discussed the trail itself and reminded us that "the purpose of a trial is to render justice and nothing else, even the noblest of ulterior purposes". Author questioned if the Eichmann's trial indeed brought justice. 
There are three kinds of objections raised against the Eichmann trial:
The first set of objections are that Eichmann was tried under a retroactive law in the court of the victors. Author rejected the retroactive prespective by saying that "if a crime is unknown before, such as genocide, justice itself demands a judgement according to a new law" so that whether the laws were retroactive does not matter, rather, it matters if they are adequate. It is also argued if it is legimate that a newly founded states can trial crimials in another country when the crime was commited when this states is not even established. The author suggested that in this aspect, the Eichmann trial was no more and no less a successor trial following the Nuremberg trial.

The real failure of the Eichmann's trial is the failure for the Jews to recognize that such crime is "a most recent kind of crime" and is not the same as other crimes that occur in their own history. The horror at Auschwitz is of a different nature from all atrocities of the past. The moment Nazi decided that Jews should be made to disappear from the face of the earth, a new crime against humanity appeared. The act of genocide is an attack not only against a fellow nation, but an attack upon human diversity. It is a failure in Isreal that the court did not recognize that the Final solution is not a crime against Jews, but a crime against humanity. Insofar as the crime was a crime against humanity, it need an international tribunal to do justice to it. The monstrousness of the events is "minimized" before a tribunal that represents one nation only. The author compared it to the fact that "Just as a murder is prosecuted because he has violated the law of the community, and not because he exterminated that individual person". The fail of the Eichmann trial is that it is unable to provide an precedent for the future in the context of international law because its scope is restrained to the suffering of Jews along. 

Then, the author discussed the "new type of crimial" who commits his crimes under circumstances that make it impossible for him to know or to feel that he is doing something wrong. It is assumed in most legal systems that the intent to do wrong is necessary for the commission of a crime. However, the author reminded of us the "old proposition" that "some great crime offends nature so that the very earth ries out for vengeance, and the evil violated a natural harmony" such that it it is a duty to the moral order to punish the criminal. 

### The direct address to Eichmann by the Judges
You admitted that the crime committed against the Jewish people during the war was the greatest crime in recorded history and you admitted your role in it. But you said you had never acted from base motives, that you had never had any inclination to kill anybody, ..., your role in the Final solution was an accident and that almost anybody could have taken your place, so that potentially almost all Germans are equally guilty. ..., this is indeed quite common conclusion, but one we are not willing to grant you. ..., In other words, guilty and innocence before the law are of an objective nature, and even eighty million Germans had done as you did, this would not have been an excuse for you. ..., There is an abyss between the actuality of what you did and the potentiality of what others might have done..., Let us assume, for the sake of argument, that it was nothing more than misfortune that made you a willing instrument in the organization of mass murder; there still remains the fact that you have carried out, and therefore actively supported, a policy of mass murder. For politics is not like the nursery; In politics obedience and support are the same. 
And just as you supported and carried out a policy of not wanting to share the earth with the Jewish people and the people of a number of other nations--as though you and your superiors had any right to determine who should and who should not inhabit the world--we find that no one, that is, no member of the human race, could be expected to want to share the earth with you. This is the reason, and the only reason, you must hang.