# Outline of Tying the autocrat's hand
[At Publisher](https://www.cambridge.org/core/books/tying-the-autocrats-hands/C202A4047D7CBBC75B2C8A748F66DD62)
Yuhua Wang, University of Pennsylvania, 2014

### The Demand side theory of law
It is believed that authoritarian rulers refuse to be ruled by law, however, the rule of law does not correlate strongly with the level of democracy and it could occur in both democracies and dictatorship. China is such an example where rule of law is strengthened even though the regime remain authoritarian. In this book, the author try to find rationalize this observation by providing a demand side theory of law. The supply side theory (?) may work in democray but it can not provide explanation in autocratic countries. 

As the author of the book purpose, the demand side theory of law is based on the premise that *rulers cannot solely rely on force to stay in power, they need cooperation* because the party does not possess its own assets, especially on the economy side. So that they rely on *asset holders* to provide revenues (revenue maximizer). So that one important focus of autocrates are the bargaining process between them and varies assert holders. The rule want to keep his interest by preserving all his privilages and power but may be forced to do otherwise if he urgently need the assets from other player. For asset holders, their power are determined by how organized they are and how "independent" they are from the ruling class (for example, mobility of their assets). The asset holders also want to maximize their benefit from this bargaining with the ruling class but varies asset holders may have diverse interest. For example, for those that are more or less politically connected with the ruling class, they may bargain and compete for privileges against other asset holders so that they can have advantages in conducting their business. For others who fail to be politically connected or forbidden to do so (for example, foreign investors), they sould seek a level playing field by persuading the ruling class to strengthen the rule of law. In short, the author wrote:
>The theory is that authoritarian rulers are more likely to respect the rule of law when they need the cooperation of organized interest groups that control valuable and mobile assets but are not politically connected.

### Impact
In the case of China, the state owned enterprises enjoy a much higher privilage than the foregin investment, who is disadvantagous in culture and also forbidden by the law of their own country, as a result, they push for the rule of law and they mainly use two mechanism to influence policies so by either voice or exit. They are mostly effective since China are in urgent need for foreign investment and technologies. This is the main reason why China strengthened its rule of law since opening up its market. On the other hand, the Chinese investors, as well as ruling classes, who benefit from the existing political and economic arrangement will try to block further reform to eliminate competition. Over the time, a "partial reform equilibrium" will be achieved. 

One important feature of such case is that this rule of law is therefore a incomplete "partial form". Authoritarian rulers are unwelling to respect the judicial fairness themselves so that they sequence the legal reforms so that judicial fairness are promised in the economic realm but not in the political realm. This can be achieved by intervening the judical process when there is risks of political interference. 

The author concluded the book with the following message:
>While some autocrats are willing to tie their hands by respecting the rule of law, authoritarian rule of law is incomplete. It is still impossible to have full-scale rule of law in an authoritarian regime as long as the autocrats sets the legal agenda. Incremental improvement in legal institutions in certain realms will not spread gradually throughout the system. To make the rule of law complete, autocrats not only need to tie their hands but also have to dig their own graves to make democratic transitions.

