### Introduction of the Course
The collapse of Soviet communism ushered in an era of widespread confidence in capitalist prosperity and democracy. Francis Fukuyama’s declaration, in 1992, that a benign end of history had finally arrived garnered widespread attention across much of the developed and developing world. Confidence in this new order endured through the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and even the financial crisis of 2008, but then it began to falter. Anemic economic recoveries in the West, revived authoritarianism in Russia and other new democracies, military stalemates in Afghanistan and Iraq, and stillborn Arab spring revolutions after 2012 took their toll. 2016 was a watershed, marked most dramatically by Britain’s vote to leave the European Union and Donald Trump’s populist stampede to the U.S. presidency, but also by the resurgence of extreme right- wing parties in many European countries the like of which had not been seen since the 1930s.

This course provides an examination of political dynamics and institutions over this tumultuous quarter century, and the implications of these changes for what comes next. Among the topics covered are the decline of trade unions and enlarged role of business as political forces, changing attitudes towards parties and other political institutions amidst the growth of inequality and middle-class insecurity, the emergence of new forms of authoritarianism, and the character and durability of the unipolar international order that replaced the Cold War.

Part I deals with the collapse of communism and its aftermath, both in former communist countries that adopted market-based economies and in the developed West where the absence of a competitor to capitalism recast relations among business, labor, and governments. Part II focuses on the early post-Cold War era, marked by the Washington Consensus on the benefits of free trade, privatization, and deregulation, and interventionist agendas to fight terrorism, prevent human rights abuses, and to spread democracy. In part III we turn to the backlash that set in after the financial crisis, as technocratic elites lost legitimacy, the global war on terror became mired in quagmires across the Middle East, and humanitarian intervention and democracy spreading agendas foundered. The new politics of insecurity is our subject in part IV, where we explore the sources of the populist explosions of 2016 and the politics to which they have given rise. This leads to a consideration of responses in part V, where we discuss the kinds of policies that are needed for a world in which congenital employment insecurity is going to be the norm, and the political reforms that would increase the chances of those policies being adopted.