
### Command and Environment
##### Allowed command names and arguments
The name of a command is either single non-alphabetic character or a string of letters, terminated by the first nonletter, The name is case senstive and allow modification with \*, which are referred to as \*-ed commands. Command arguments are enclosed by { }, while optional arguments are enclosed by [ ]

To include a space after a command, explicitly use `\_` 

##### Types of commands
- *Command declaration*: they are commands that have no argument and declare a change for the following text.
- *Long command and short command*: long command can contain a blank line or a \par, otherwise they are short commands.
- *Fragile commands*: read this [webpage](https://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/4736/what-is-the-difference-between-fragile-and-robust-commands-when-and-why-do-we-n)

##### Scope and Environment
A scope is given by {}, a command issued inside a pair of braces { } has no effect beyond the right brace. For example, a command that change font size will stop being effective when it goes outside of the scope. 
A environment can be specified by `\begin` and `\end` command

## Text environment
##### General
- Blank lines are ignored immediately after `\begin{name}` and before `\end{name}`.
- A blank line after `\end{name}` forces the start of a new paragraph
- As a rule, blank line should not be placed before `\begin{name}`

##### List environment
latex provide three list environments: *enumerate*, *itemize* and *description*, [this page](https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/Lists#Nested_lists:_label_style) write more details about them. 

Any `\item` command must immediately follow the `\begin` command. If the begining of the enteis contain `[` character, warp it with `{[}`

##### enumerate
enumerate creates a numbered list. Each \item introduce a entries. The number generated can be labeled and cross-referenced.
    
Using \item[] instead of \item, unnumbered entries can be generated
```latex
\begin{enumerate}
  \item Half-smooth Hausdorff  \label{Hausdorff}
  \item Metrizably smooth      \label{smooth}
\end{enumerate}
```
    
##### itemize
Bulleted list can be generated in a itemize environment
```latex
\begin{itemize}
    \item To introduce the concept of smooth functions. 
    \item To show their usefulness in differentiation.
\end{itemize}
```
    
##### Description
Captioned list can be generated by description. Each entries have a title, which is displayed in bold font.
```latex
\begin{description}
   \item[Chopped lattice] a reduced form of a lattice. 
   \item[Boolean triples] a powerful lattice construction.
\end{description}
```

### Theorem like structures

##### Creating theory like structure
We can create an index Theorem, Lemmas or Definitions using *theorem like structures*. There are two steps to use them:
1. Define the proclamation with `\newtheorem` in the preamble:
	```latex
	\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
	```
    It take two argument, the first argument is the name of the environment that we are going to use. The second argument is the name which will be used when proclamation is typeset. 
    
2. We can invoke the defined theorem environment as:
    ```latex
    \begin{theorem}[The Fuchs-Schmidt Theorem]   # note that we can add optional argument
    		The statement of the theorem.
    \end{theorem}
    
    which will be typeset as:
    
    **Theorem 1** (The Fuchs-Schmidt Theorem). *The Statement of the theorem*
    ```
    The [ ] give the optional name of the theorem
    
##### Theorem style
We can also specify the style of the theorem using the command \theoremstyle{} command, which change the style of the defined environment right below it
```latex
\theoremstyle{definition}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}[section]
    
\theoremstyle{remark}
\newtheorem*{remark}{Remark}   % this is an unnumbered theorem with remark style
```

##### Choosing between theorem, proposition and lemma
see this [webpage](https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/25639/lemma-proposition-theorem-which-one-should-we-pick)
- Theorem: the major results of the paper
- Propositions: the lesser results (compare to theorems), can be independent or used as ingredients in the proof of the theorem.
- Lemmas: useful (small) technical results that are used in other places.

### Proof environment
Proof environment is invoked by `\begin{proof}`. After the proof is complete, the q.e.d symbol will be included automatically to mark the end of the proof. We can also given name for proof environment by optional argument
```latex
\begin{proof}[Necessity]
		Now the proof follows from the equation
		\[ a^2 = b^2 + c^2.\qedhere \]
\end{proof}
```
`\qedhere` command explicitly place the q.e.d. symbol at the point of insertion (can be the same line as display equation)

### Tabular environments
A tabular environments create a table that latex treats as “large symbol”, A table cannot be broken across pages. 

The \table environment will make a tabel “float”
```latex
\begin{table}
	\centering 
	\begin{tabular}{ | l | r | r | r | }
		\hline
		Name & 1 & 2 & 3 \\ \hline
	  Peter & 2.45 & 34.12 & 1.00 \\ \hline
	  John  & 0.00 & 12.89 & 3.71 \\ \hline
	\end{tabular}
\caption{Tabular table} \label{Ta:first} 
\end{table}
```

In tabular environment:
- & absorbs spaces on either size of itself
- `\hline` can either be placed at the begining of the table after the `\begin` line, or it must follow a `\\` command
- `\begin{tabular}` take optional argument b and t to specify the vertical positoin of the text in the cell. The default is center alignment.
- The width of the column can be specified using p specifier `p{width}`, in which case the text in the cell is by default left aligned. Using explicit alignment, for example, \\centering, to align the elements in the cell.