### Part 1
Author trace the history of the Jews to Abraham and his accqusition of the land in the bilble. Author goes on to discuss whether the account of the bilble are to be trusted as historical facts and concluded that although not entirely an objective account, evidences are found that correspond to some of the events, so that it *contains at least of germ of truth* and *these historical record, however obscure* make the Jews the only people in the world who can trace back their origin into the begining.

Author focus on Abraham himself and compared the accounts from the bilble with the historical documents, to show that there is high possibility that "we can place Abraham and his descendants in their true historical context". Abraham is a leader of the tribe which travel around one area to another, but accquired a land. Abrham is described to be *a deeply human and realistic personality, sometimes afraid, doubtful, even sceptical, though ultimately always faithful and carrying out God's instruction* and is provided, in bilble, as the earlest example for the relationship between man and God. For this reason, he can be regarded as the founder of Hebrew religious culture with two salient characteristics: *covenant with God* and *donation of the land*. 

Author mentioned here an important point in understanding Jewish history, that is the notion of elected people and elected states. Ultimatly, the land of Israel is a "grace and favor" of God to the Jewish people, who are God's elected people. As a result, there are always a sense of "anxiety" in this Jewish possession that God will take it back. (See [wiki Promised land]https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Promised_Land)

After Abraham himself, his grandson, Jacob is another key figure in establishing the Israel identify. He crafted the term Israel and it is during his lifetime that his people's link to east or north, the "external" lands are cut and start to think of themselves to be linked permanently to Canaan region. Israelites at that time become conscious of their common identity with a single national God, with the social structure similar to a tribal system which they were in.

